CONCORDANCE
===========

[1.1.1] One night as he sat at his table head on hands he saw himself rise and
go.

    (ABLATIVE) MOTION-AWAY-FROM-WHICH.

    (INTRANSITIVE / REFLEXIVE) MOTION-UP.

    SEEING.

    SELF.

        Is the image of disassocation-from-self to be taken metaphysically? We
        may read death in "when his own light went out" [1.1.2]. But the text
        only references death literally in reference to Darly (two times:
        [1.2.13], [1.5.2]) and figuratively a single time ("... the best he
        could do was stop dead and stand stock still ..." [2.16]). And then how
        to read the metaphysical refrain ("... time and grief and self ..."
        [1.8.10], [3.9])? The sense of grief as the experience of the
        *survivors of* death perhaps countermands an image soul departing body.
        But not necessarily because it is possible that the (disassociated)
        self witnesses (the) death (of itself) and experiecnes grief in the
        moment of witness.

[1.1.2] For when his own light went out he was not left in the dark.

    ABLATIVE MOTION AWAY-FROM-WHICH ("left")

    (INSTANSITIVE / REFLEXIVE) ("went out")

    SEEING.

        "For" implies explanation. But what is explained?

[1.1.3] Light of a kind came then from the one high window.

    (INTR/REF) MOTION-DOWN.

    SEEING.

    SINGULARITY.

[1.1.4] Under it stood the stool on which till he could or would no more he
used to mount to see the sky.

    MODAL MULTIPLICATION ("could or would no more").

    MOTION-UP-TOWARDS-WHICH (ACCUSATIVE).

        [1.1.3], [1.1.4] invert direction.

    SEEING.

    TIME-UP-UNTIL-WHICH ("till").
    
    TIME-RECURRENT-PAST ("he used to mount").

[1.1.5] Why he did not crane out to see what lay beneath was perhaps because
the window was not made to open or because he could or would not open it.

    LOCATION-DOWN ("what lay beneath").
    
    MODAL MULTIPLICATION ("because he could or would not open it").

        Introduced as explanation for an action *not* taken.

    SEEING.

        Assessment of the window's function hovers between indirect knowledge
        ("because the window was not made to open") and experience ("because he
        could or would not open it").

[1.1.6] Perhaps he knew only too well what lay beneath and did not wish to see
it again.

    Sensoriality: SIGHT ("did not wish to see it again"). [First seven
    sentences of text each include explicit verbs of sight; remaining three
    sentences of [1.1] invoke sight implicitly through reference to light and
    its subsequent darkness.]

    Time: RECURRENCE ("to see it again"). First occurrence of "again" in
    the text. 26 occurrences of "again" in [1]; only 2 occurrences of "again"
    in [2] (and only in [2.1] as if carried over from [1]); 8 occurrences of
    "again" in [3]. Makes a strong case for the centrality of recurrence in
    [1] (though in the guise of an existential that may or may not invoke
    Nietschze).

[1.1.7] So he would simply stand there high above the earth and see through the
clouded pane the cloudless sky.

    Motion: HEIGHT, EXTERIORITY ("high above the earth"). But ambiguity
    of place ("there high above the earth"). Where? Beckett's narrator observes
    Beckett's protagonist "at his table" and near a window. From this do we
    conclude that Beckett's narrator observes Beckett's protagonist in a room
    or in some other enclosed space? (Images of enclosure in the text are
    complex: explicit mention of a room never appears while walls and
    boundaries do.) 

    Sensoriality: SIGHT. The seventh of the first seven sentences to invoke
    explicitly a verb of seeing. How are we to take the "clouded pane" and
    "cloudless sky"? Perhaps fundamentally as indexical of acts of perception
    altogether: the "clouded" pane invoking the (imperfect) organs of
    perception and the "cloudless" sky standing in as a token of manifest
    reality. In which case the imagery all functions as a type of concluding
    gloss on the persistent sensoriality of the text's opening seven sentences.

[1.1.8] Its faint unchanging light unlike any light he could remember from the
days and nights when day followed hard on night and night on day.

    Sensoriality: SIGHT ("faint unchanging light unlike any light he could
    remember").

    Time: RECURRENCE ("the days and nights when day followed hard on
    night and night on day").

    Cognitive mediation: MEMORY ("faint unchanging light unlike any light he
    could remember"). First reference to memory in the text. Invoked here in
    the manifest conclusion of [1.1] such that memory helps take the first
    paragraph of the text to its conclusion. (Four other references to memory
    appear in the text: "he sought help in the thought that his memory of
    indoors was perhaps at fault" [2.8]; "Nor ... was this the short green
    grass he seemed to remember eaten down by flocks and herds" [2.13]; "he
    sought help in the thought that his memory of outdoors was perhaps at
    fault" [2.14]; that is, in memories of indoors / outdoors and in a memory
    of the colors of grass.)

[1.1.9] This outer light then when his own went out became his only light till
it in its turn went out and left him in the dark.

    Now (by the end of [1.1] the first paragraph) Beckett's protragonist is, in
    fact, left in the dark. This was not the case at the beginning of the
    paragraph ("For when his own light went out he was not left in the dark"
    [1.1.2]). It's a stunning structural maneuvre in the form of two successive
    goings-out (of two 'lights' considered in turn) even if nonmetaphorical
    values of the lights can not be ascribed.

    Time: SUCCESSION ("became" and then "it in its turn").

    Motion: MOTION-IN-TOWARDS-WHICH (presumed shining of "This outer
    light" in towards Beckett's protagonist) followed by
    MOTION-OUT-TOWARDS-WHICH (in the outer light's extinction).

[1.1.10] Till it in its turn went out.

    Discursive function: REFRAIN punctuated as a complete sentence but
    grammatically a prepositional phrase (encoding Time-up-until-which).
    Refrain is always a type of recurrence. Refrain of succession. Refrain of
    motion-out-towards-which.

                                       *

[1.2.1] One night or day then as he sat at his table head on hands he saw
himself rise and go.
    
    Time: multiplication of times-at-which where "One night" [1.1.1]
    becomes "One night or day" [1.2.1]. Note that Beckett prepares this
    multiplication of times-at-which earlier in [1.1.8] ("from the days and
    nights when day followed hard on night and night on day") when day is first
    introduced and when days and nights begin cyclically to intermingle.

    Discursive function: BEGINNING-AGAIN. Now with an accumulation of
    time imagery carried over from earlier preparation in [1.1.8].

[1.2.2] First rise and stand clinging to the table.

    Discursive function: BEGINNING-OF-PROCESS ("First rise and stand ...").

    Affective content: Effort or desperation ("clinging"). 

    Sensoriality: TOUCH ("clinging"). First appearance of touch in the text.
    Definitely composed in such a way as to effect a transition from SIGHT
    [1.1] to TOUCH [1.2].

[1.2.3] Then sit again.

    Time: SUCCESSION ("Then ..."). RECURRENCE ("again").

    Motion: MOTION-DOWN-TOWARDS-WHICH ("sit").

    Discursive function: CONTINUATION-OF-PROCESS.

[1.2.4] Then rise again and stand clinging to the table again.

    SUCESSION ("Then ...").

    CONTINUATION-OF-PROCESS.
    
    (MULTIPLIED) RECURRENCE ("... again ... again ...").

        First sentence with multiple occurrences of "again." But there will be
        many others (see end). Striking tendency towards epistrophic "again" as
        the tolling of a bell; equally striking multiplication of "again" in
        series spread throughout certain sentences.
    
[1.2.5] Then go.

    SUCESSION.

    INITIATION-OF-PROCESS.

    MOTION-AWAY-FROM.

[1.2.6] Start to go.

    (RE)INITIATION-OF-PROCESS.

    Epistrophic "go."

[1.2.7] On unseen feet start to go.

    (RE)INITIATION-OF-PROCESS.

    Epistrophic "go."

    Why "unseen"?

[1.2.8] So slow that only change of place to show he went.

    SLOWNESS.

    MOTION-AWAY-FROM.

    SIGHT (and evidentiary knowledge).

        Only explicit indication of speed in the text. At what tempi does the
        text imagine its motions?

[1.2.9] As when he disappeared only to reappear later at another place.

    DISAPPEARANCE / REAPPEARANCE (time, place).

        Text indexes migration of the sentence (or its parts) to other places
        in the text.

[1.2.10] Then disappeared again only to reappear again later at another place
again.

    RECURRENCE; REAPPEARANCE; RECURRENT REAPPEARANCE.

        "again ... again ... again" bell tolling at the end of each short
        clause.

[1.2.11] So again and again disappeared again only to reappear again later at
another place again.

    Ibid, intensified.

[1.2.12] Another place in the place where he sat at his table head on hands.

    REFRAIN ("sat at his table head on hands")
    
        Again signals end of paragraph.

[1.2.13] The same place and table as when Darly for example died and left him.

    Motion: ABLATIVE MOTION-AWAY-FROM ("left him").


[1.2.14] And when others too in their turn before and since.

    Discursive function: ECHO, RECOLLECTION.

    Time: TIME BRACKETING ("before and since"). Beckett's adverbs.

    Identity: UNNAMED OTHERS ("when others too in their turn").

[1.2.15] As when others too in their turn and leave him till he too in his
turn.

    Discursive function: REFRAIN. Analogous to the conclusion of [1.1].

                                       *

[1.3.1] Head on hands half hoping when he disappeared again that he would not
reappear again and half fearing that he would not.

    Discursive function: REFRAIN ("Head on hands", "disappeared ... reappear").
    Indexical function ("disappeared ... reappear").

    Affective function: multiplication of state ("half hoping ... half
    fearing").

[1.3.2] Or merely wondering.

    Affective function: multiplication of state ("hoping ... fearing ...
    wondering")

[1.3.3] Or merely waiting.

    Affective function: multiplication of state ("hoping .. fearing ..
    wondering ... waiting").

[1.3.4] Waiting to see if he would or would not.

    Discursive function: REARTICULATION ("Waiting").

    Modal bivalence ("would or would not").

[1.3.5] Leave him or not alone again waiting for nothing again.

    ABLATIVE MOTION-AWAY-FROM
    
        * "Leave him"
        * "Leave him ... alone"

                                       *

[1.4.1] Seen always from behind withersoever he went.

    MOTION-FROM-BEHIND-TOWARDS-WHICH (ACCUSATIVE).

    SEEING.

[1.4.2] Same hat and coat as of old when he walked the roads.

    Motion: WALKING ("when he walked the roads").

[1.4.3] The back roads.

    Discursive function: REITERATION.

[1.4.4] Now as one in a strange place seeking the way out.

    Affective function: alientation ("strange place"), effort ("seeking the way
    out") and perhaps desperation.

[1.4.5] In the dark.

    LOCATIVE.

[1.4.6] In a strange place blindly in the dark of night or day seeking the way
out.

    DOUBLE LOCATIVE, ACCUSATIVE MOTION-TOWARDS-WHICH.

[1.4.7] A way out.

    GOAL-OF-MOTION.

[1.4.8] To the roads.

    MOTION-TOWARDS-WHICH.

[1.4.9] The back roads.

    SUCCESSIVE SHORTENING TOWARDS CONCLUSION.
    
        Favored device: helps effect conclusion of [1.1], [1.4], [1.5], [1.6],
        [1.7], [1.8]. Also at end of [3]. Does not appear at end of [2].

                                       *

[1.5.1] A clock struck the hours and the half-hours.

    Introduction of STRIKES.

[1.5.2] The same as when among others Darly once died and left him.

    MOTION-AWAY-FROM (ABLATIVE).

[1.5.3] Strokes now clear as if carried by a wind now faint on the still air.

    Introduction of "now clear now faint" doublet.

[1.5.4] Cries afar now faint now clear.

    Introduction of CRIES.

[1.5.5] Head on hands half hoping when the hour struck that the half-hour would
not and half fearing the it would not.

    REITERATION.

[1.5.6] Similarly when the half-hour struck.

[1.5.7] Similarly when the cries a moment ceased.

    Two-part parallelism.

[1.5.8] Or merely wondering.

[1.5.9] Or merely waiting.

    Two-part parallelism.

[1.5.10] Waiting to hear.

    Introduction of HEARING.

                                       *

[1.6.1] Then had been a time he would sometimes lift his head enough to see his
hands.

[1.6.2] What of them was to be seen.

[1.6.3] One laid on the table and the other on the one.

[1.6.4] At rest after all they did.

    What did they (his hands) do?

[1.6.5] Lift his past head a moment to see his past hands.

[1.6.6] Then lay it back on them to rest it too.

[1.6.7] After all it did.

    What did it (his head) do?

                                       *

[1.7.1] The same place as when left day after day for the roads.

[1.7.2] The back roads.

    Sentence appears three times: [1.4.3], [1.4.9], [1.7.2].

[1.7.3] Returned to night after night.

[1.7.4] Paced from wall to wall in the dark.

    Introduction of WALL.

[1.7.5] Then the fleeting dark of night.

[1.7.6] Now as if strange to him seen to rise and go.

[1.7.7] Disappear and reappear at another place.

    Text indexes its own function.

[1.7.8] Disappear again and reappear again at another place again.

    Text indexes its own function.

[1.7.9] Or at the same.

[1.7.10] Nothing to show not the same.

[1.7.11] No wall toward which or from.

[1.7.12] Not able back toward which or further from.

[1.7.13] In the same place as when paced from wall to wall all places as the
same.

[1.7.14] Or in another.

[1.7.15] Nothing to show not another.

[1.7.16] Where never.

    Introduction of WHERE NEVER
    
        Always plausibly always "where [?] never [!]."

[1.7.17] Rise and go in the same place as ever.

[1.7.18] Disappear and reappear in another where never.

[1.7.19] Nothing to show not another where never.

[1.7.20] Nothing but the strokes.

[1.7.21] The cries.

[1.7.22] The same as ever.

                                       *

[1.8.1] Till so many strokes and cries since he was last seen that perhaps he
would not be seen again.

[1.8.2] Then so many cries since the strokes were last heard that perhaps they
would not be heard again.

[1.8.3] Then such silence since the cries were last heard that perhaps even
they would not be heard again.

[1.8.4] Perhaps thus the end.

[1.8.5] Unless no more than a mere lull.

[1.8.6] Then all as before.

[1.8.7] The strokes and cries as before and he as before now there now gone now
there again now gone again.

[1.8.8] Then the lull again.

[1.8.9] Then all as before again.

[1.8.10] And patience till the one true end to time and grief and self and
second self his own.

                                     * * *

[2.1] As one in his right mind when at last out again he knew not how he was
not long out again when he began to wonder if he was in his right mind.

    As one in his right mind [...] he knew [...] he was not [...] in his right
    mind.

    As one in his right mind [...] he began to wonder if he was in his right
    mind.

    THINKING.

[2.2] For could one not in his right mind be reasonably said to wonder if he
was in his right mind and bring what is more his remains of reason to bear on
this perplexity in the way he must be said to do if he is to be said at all?

    For could one not in his right mind be reasonably said to wonder if he was
    in his right mind [...]?

    For could one not in his rihgt mind [...] bring [...] his remains of reason
    to bear on this perplexity [...]?

    THINKING.

[2.3] It was therefore in the guise of a more or less reasonable being that
he emerged at last he knew not how into the outer world and had not been there
for more than six or seven hours by the clock when he could not but begin to
wonder if he was in his right mind.

    [...] he [...] had not been there for more than six or seven hours [...]
    when he could not but begin to wonder if he was in his right mind.

    [...] he emerged [...] into the outer world and [...] could not but begin
    to wonder if he was in his right mind.
    
    THINKING.

[2.4] By the same clock whose strokes were heard time without number in his
confinement as it struck the hours and half hours and so in a sense a source of
reassurance till finally one of alarm as being no clearer now than when in
principle muffled by his four walls.

    By the same clock whose strokes were heard time without number [...] as
    being no clearer now than when in principle muffled by his four walls.

    HEARING.

[2.5] Then he sought help in the thought of one hastening westward at sundown
to obtain a better view of Venus and found it of none.

    Then he sought help [...] and found it [...].

    Then he sough help [...] and found [...] none.

[2.6] Of the sole other sound that of cries enlivener of his solitude as lost
to suffering he sat at his table head on hands the same was true.
    
    Of the sole other sound [...] the same was true.

[2.7] Of their whenceabouts that is of clock and cries the same was true that
is no more to be determined now than as was only natural then.

    [...] of clock and cries the same was true [...].

[2.8] Bringing to bear on all this his remains of reason he sought help in the
thought that his memory of indoors was perhaps at fault and found it of none.

    [...] he sought help [...] and found it [...].

    [...] he sought help [...] and found [...] none.

[2.9] Further to his disarray his soundless tread as when barefoot he trod his
floor.

    [...] he trod his floor.

[2.10] So all ears from bad to worse till in the end he ceased if not to hear
to listen and set out to look about him.

    [...] he ceased [...] to listen and set out to look about him.

[2.11] Result finally he was in a field of grass which went some way if nothing
else to explain his tread and then a little later as if to make up for this
some way to increase his trouble.

    [...] finally he was in a field of grass [...].

[2.12] For he could recall no field of grass from even the very heart of which
no limit of any kind was to be discovered but always in some quarter or another
some end in sight such as a fence or other manner of bourne from which to
return.

    [...] he could recall no field of grass [...] from which to return.

[2.13] Nor on his looking more closely to make matters worse was this the short
green grass he seemed to remember eaten down by flocks and herds but long and
light grey in color verging here and there on white.

    Nor [...] was this the short green grass he seemed to remember [...] but
    long and light grey in color verging here and there on white.

[2.14] Then he sought help in the thought that his memory of outdoors was
perhaps at fault and found it of none.

    Then he sought help [...] and found it [...].

    then he sough help [...] and found [...] none.

[2.15] So all eyes from bad to worse till in the end he ceased if not to see to
look (about him or more closely) and set out to take thought.

    [...] he ceased [...] to look [...] and set out to take thought.

[2.16] To this end for want of a stone on which to sit like Walter and cross
his legs the best he could do was stop dead and stand stock still which after a
moment of hesitation he did and of course sink his head as one deep in
meditation which after another moment he did also.

    To this end [...] the best he could do was stop dead [...] and of course
    sink his head as one deep in meditation [...].    

[2.17] But soon weary of vainly delving in these remains he moved on through
the long hoar grass resigned to not knowing where he was going or how to get
back to when he knew not how he came.

    [...] he moved on through the long hoar grass resigned to not knowing where
    he was going or how to get back [...].

[2.18] So on unknowing and no end in sight.

    So on unknowing [...].

    [...] no end in sight.

[2.19] Unknowing and what it is more no wish to know nor indeed any wish of any
kind nor therefore any sorrow save that he would have wished the strokes to
cease and the cries for good and was sorry that they did not.

    [...] he would have wished the strokes to cease [...] and was sorry that
    they did not.

[2.20] The strokes now faint now clear as if carried by the wind but not a
breath and the cries now faint now clear.

    The strokes [...] and the cries [...].

                                     * * *

[3.1] So on still stayed when to his ears from deep within oh how and here a
word he could not catch it were to end where never till then.

[3.2] Rest then before again from not long to so long that perhaps never again
and then again faint from deep within oh how and here that mising word again it
were to end where never till then.

[3.3] In any case whatever it might be to end and so on was he not already as
he stood there all bowed down to his ears faint from deep within again and
again oh how something and so on was he not so far as he could see already
there where never till then.

[3.4] For how could such a one as he having once found himself in such a place
not shudder to find himself in it again which he had not done nor having
shuddered seek hlep in vain in the thought so-called that having somehow go out
of it then he could somehow get out of it again which he not done either.

[3.5] There then all this time where never till then and so far as he could see
in every direction when he raised his head and opened his eyes no danger or
hope as the case might be of his ever getting out of it.

[3.6] Was he then now to press on regardless now in one direction and now in
another or on the other hand stir no more as the case might be that is as that
missing word might be which if to warn such as sad or bad for example then of
course then in spite of all the one and if the reverse then of course the other
that is stir no more.

    Clause-level tmesis or tmectic presentation.

[3.7] Such and much more such as the hubbub in his mind so-called till nothing
left from deep within but only ever fainter oh to end.

[3.8] No matter how no matter where.

[3.9] Time and grief and self so-called.

[3.10] Oh all to end.

###############################################################################
#################################### GLOSS ####################################
###############################################################################

AGAIN:

    [1.2.10] (x3)
    [1.2.11] (x5!)
    [1.3.1] (x2)
    [1.3.5]
    [1.7.8] (x3)
    [1.8.1] (epistrophe)
    [1.8.2] (epistrophe)
    [1.8.3] (epistrophe)
    [1.8.7] (x2)
    [1.8.8] (epistrophe)
    [1.8.9] (epistrophe)
    ==
    [2.1] (x2) four times in
    [3.2] (x4)
    [3.3] (x2)
    [3.4] (x2)

    MULTIPLICATION of the word (with almost every occurrence of the word
    embedded in a series). Equally striking predisposition for sentence- or
    clause-relative epistrophic END-POSITIONING of the word. Epistrophic
    multiplication strongly suggests RECURRENT INTONATION of the word analogous
    to CLOCKSTRIKES.

ASYMMETRY:

    * many goings but only one coming: text balanced asymmetrically towards
      MOTION-AWAY-FROM-WHICH with no corresponding motion-towards-which.

CLOCK / STRIKE:

    clock:
        [1.5.1]
        [2.3]
        [2.4]
        [2.7]

    strike / struck / stroke:
        [1.5.1]
        [1.5.3]
        [1.5.5]
        [1.5.6]
        [1.7.20]
        [1.8.1]
        [1.8.2]
        [1.8.7]
        [2.4] (twice)
        [2.19]
        [2.20]

    Does not appear in [3].

CRIES:

    [1.5.4]
    [1.5.7]
    [1.7.21] ("The cries")
    [1.8.1]
    [1.8.2]
    [1.8.3]
    [1.8.7]
    ==
    [2.6]
    [2.7]
    [2.19]
    [2.20]

    Cries and strikes persist into [2] in a way that "head", "hands", "see",
    "place", "again" do not.

DEIXIS (CLOAKED)

    * text is relentlessly deictic in a way that makes it difficult to retrieve
      objects of reference

DOUBLETS:

    * "day" / "night"
    * "head" / "hands"
    * "strikes" / "cries"

END:

    [1.8.4] ("Perhaps thus the end")
    [1.8.10] ("the one true end to time and grief and self")
    ==
    [2.10] ("till in the end he ceased if not to hear to listen")
    [2.12] ("some end in sight")
    [2.15] ("till in the end he ceased if not to see to look")
    [2.16] ("To this end")
    [2.18] ("no end in sight")
    ==
    [3.1] ("were to end where never till then")
    [3.2] ("were to end where never till then")
    [3.3] ("whatever it might be to end")
    [3.7] ("only ever fainter oh to end")
    [3.10] ("Oh all to end")
    
    Text positions the word (indexically) at the end of [1], [2], [3].
    Other appearances meditate on whether an end approaches or what it might
    mean to to end ([2.12], [3.1], [3.2], [3.3]).

EPITSTROPHE:

    * everywhere
    * epistrophic "again"
    * epistrophic "till then"
    * epistrophic sonorants

FINNEGAN:

    Yes, tid. There's where. First. We pass through grass behush the bush
    to. Whish! A gull. Gulls. Far calls. Coming, far! End here. Us
    then. Finn, again! Take. Bussoftlhee, mememormee! Till thous-
    endsthee. Lps. The keys to. Given! A way a lone a last a loved a
    long the

GO:

    [1.1.1] ("rise and go") seed (later functioning as refrain)
    [1.2.1] ("rise and go") refrain
    [1.2.5] ("Then go") epistrophe
    [1.2.6] ("Start to go") cumulative epistrophe
    [1.2.7] ("On unseen feet start to go") cumulative epistrophe
    [1.7.6] ("rise and go") refrain
    [1.7.17]("rise and go") refrain

    Text describes goings with far greater insistence than comings ("come"
    appears only once, in [2.17]) and front-loads all seven appearances of "go"
    in [1]. Which means that [1] is about goings in an important way, together
    with the senses of MOTION-AWAY-FROM and DISTANCE the word establishes.

HEAD ON HANDS:

    [1.1.1] ("head on hands")
    [1.2.1] ("head on hands")
    [1.2.12] ("head on hands")
    [1.3.1] ("head on hands")
    [1.5.5] ("head on hands")
    [1.6.1] ("head ... hands")
    [1.6.5] ("head ... hands")
    [2.6] ("head on hands")

    Text front-loads "head on hands": doesn't occur a single time in [3].

HEARING:

    [1.5.10]
    [1.8.2] (x2)
    [1.8.3] (x2)
    ==
    [2.4],
    [2.10] (twice with "if not to hear to listen")

    sound:
        [2.6] ("the sole otehr sound that of cries")
        [2.9] ("his soundless tread as when barefoot")

NOTHING:

    [1.3.5] ("for nothing again")
    [1.7.10] ("Nothing to show")
    [1.7.15] ("Nothing to show")
    [1.7.19] ("Nothing to show")
    [1.7.20] ("Nothing but the strokes")
    ==
    [2.11] ("if nothing else")
    [3.7] ("till nothing left")

PLACE:

    series 1:
        [1.2.8] ("change of place")
        [1.2.9] ("at another place")
        [1.2.10] ("at another place again")
        [1.2.11] ("at another place again")
        [1.2.12] ("Another place in the place where he sat") (x2)
        [1.2.13] ("The same place")
    [1.4.4] ("in a strange place")
    [1.4.6] ("In a strange place blindly")
    [1.7.1] ("The same place")
    [1.7.7] ("at another place")
    [1.7.8] ("at another place again")
    [1.7.13] ("In the same place ... all places as the same") (x2)
    [1.7.17] ("In the same place")
    ==
    [3.4] ("found himself in such a place")

    Text front-loads reference to place. No references in [2] and only one in
    [3].

REASON:

    [2.2] ("could one not in his right mind be reasonably said to wonder")
    [ibid] ("his remains of reason")
    [2.3] ("in the guise of a more or less reasonable being")
    [2.8] ("Bringing to bear on all this his remains of reason")

    Territorializes only [2].

SEEING:

    [1.1.1] ("he saw himself rise and go")
    [1.2.1] ("he saw himself rise and go")
    [1.1.4] ("mount to see the sky")
    [1.1.5] ("to see what lay beneath")
    [1.1.6] ("did not wish to see it again")
    [1.1.7] ("and see through the clouded pane")
    [1.3.4] ("Waiting to see")
    [1.4.1] ("Seen always from behind")
    [1.6.1] ("to see his hands")
    [1.6.2] ("What of them was to be seen")
    [1.6.5] ("to see his past hands")
    [1.7.6] ("seen to rise and go")
    [1.8.1] ("he was last seen that perhaps he would not be seen again")
    [2.15] ("if not to see to look")
    [3.3] ("so far as he could see")
    [3.5] ("as he could see in every direction")

SELF:

    [1.1.1] ("he saw himself rise and go")
    [1.2.1] ("he saw himself rise and go")
    [1.8.10] ("time and grief and self and second self his own")
    ==
    [3.4] ("once found himself in such a place ... find himself in it again")
    [3.9] ("Time and grief and self so-called")

TABLE:

    [1.1.1] ("at his table head on hands")
    [1.2.1] ("at his table head on hands")
    [1.2.2] ("clinging to the table")
    [1.2.4] ("to the table again")
    [1.2.12] ("at his table head on hands")
    [1.2.13] ("The same place and table")
    [1.6.3] ("One laid on the table")
    ==
    [2.6] ("at his table head on hands")

    Front-loaded reference.

THEN:

    [1.1.3]
    [1.1.9]
    [1.2.1]
    [1.2.3]
    [1.2.4]
    [1.2.5]
    [1.2.10]
    [1.6.1]
    [1.6.6]
    [1.7.5]
    [1.8.2]
    [1.8.3]
    [1.8.6]
    [1.8.8]
    [1.8.9]
    ==
    [2.7]
    [2.11]
    [2.14]
    ==
    [3.1]
    [3.2] (x3)
    [3.3]
    [3.4]
    [3.5] (x2)
    [3.6] (x4)

    Epistrophic sonorant "then."

WALL:

    [1.7.4] ("wall to wall in the dark")
    [1.7.11] ("No wall toward which or from")
    [1.7.13] ("from wall to wall all places")
    ==
    [2.4] ("muffled by his four walls")

WHEN [-]:

    [2.1] ("when at last")

    Only one of these.
    
WHERE NEVER:

    [1.7.16]
    [1.7.18]
    [1.7.19]
    ===
    [3.1]
    [3.2]
    [3.3]
    [3.5]

    One of the first lexical items to persist into [3].
