TEXT
====

One night as he sat at his table head on hands he saw himself rise and go. (1)

For when his own light went out he was not left in the dark. Light of a kind
came then from the one high window. Under it stood the stool on which till he
could or would no more he used to mount to see the sky. (2)

Why he did not crane out to see what lay beneath was perhaps because the window
was not made to open (3)

or because he could or would not open it. (4)

Perhaps he knew only too well what lay beneath and did not wish to see it
again. So he would simply stand there high above the earth and see through the
clouded pane the cloudless sky. Its faint unchanging light unlike any light he
could remember from the days and nights when day followed hard on night (5)

and night on day. (6)

This outer light then when his own went out became his only light
till it in its turn went out and left him in the dark. (7)

Till it in its turn went out. (8)

One night or day then as he sat at his table head on hands he saw himself rise
and go. (9)

First rise and stand clinging to the table. Then sit again. Then rise again and
stand clinging to the table again. Then go. (10)

Start to go. On unseen feet start to go. So slow that only change of place to
show he went. As when he disappeared (11)

only to reappear later at another place. Then disappeared again only to
reappear again (12)

later (13)

at another place again. (14)

So again and again disappeared again only to reappear again later at another
place again. Another place in the place where he sat at his table head on
hands. The same place and table as when Darly for example died and left him.
And when others too in their turn before and since. (15)

As when others too in their turn (16)

and leave him (17)

till he too in his turn. (18)

Head on hands half hoping when he disappeared again that he would not reappear
again and half fearing that he would not. Or merely wondering. (19)

Or merely waiting. Waiting to see if he would or would not. Leave him or not
alone again waiting for nothing again. (20)

Seen always from behind withersoever he went. Same hat and coat as of old when
he walked the roads. The back roads. Now as one in a strange place seeking the
way out. In the dark. In a strange place blindly in the dark of night or day
seeking the way out. A way out. To the roads. The back roads. (21)

A clock struck the hours and the half-hours. The same as when among others
Darly once died and left him. (22)

Strokes (23)

now clear (24)

as if carried by a wind (25)

now faint (26)

on the still air. (27)

Cries afar (28)

now faint (29)

now clear. Head on hands half hoping when the hour struck that the half-hour
would not and half fearing that it would not. Similarly when the half-hour
struck. Similarly when the cries a moment ceased. Or merely wondering. (30)

Or merely waiting. Waiting to hear. (31)

Then [["There"]] had been a time he would sometimes lift his head enough to see
his hands. What of them was to be seen. One laid on the table and the other on
the one. At rest after all they did. Lift his past head a moment to see his
past hands. Then lay it back on them to rest it too. After all it did. (32)

The same place as when left day after day for the roads. The back roads.
Returned to night after night. Paced from wall to wall in the dark. Then the
fleeting dark of night. Now as if strange to him seen to rise and go. Disappear
and reappear (33)

at another place. Disappear again and reappear again (34)

at another place (35)

again. Or at the same. (36)

Nothing to show (37)

not the same. No wall toward which (38)

or from. Not able back toward which (39)

or further from. In the same place as when paced from wall to wall all places
as the same. Or in another. Nothing to show not another. (40)

Where (41)

never. (42)

Rise and go in the same place as ever. Disappear and reappear (43)

in another where (44)

never. Nothing to show not another (45)

where never. Nothing but the strokes. The cries. The same (46)

as ever. Till so many strokes and cries since he was last seen that perhaps he
would not be seen again. (47)

Then so many cries since the strokes were last heard that perhaps they would
not be heard again. Then such silence since the cries were last heard that
perhaps even they would not be heard again. (48)

Perhaps thus the end. (49)

Unless no more than a mere lull. Then all as before. The strokes and
cries as before and he as before now there now gone now there again now gone
again. Then the lull again. Then all as before again. And patience (50)

till the one true end (51)

to time (52)

and grief (53)

and self (54)

and second self (55)

his own. (56)

As one in his right mind when at last out again he knew not how he was not long
out again when he began to wonder if he was in his right mind. For could one
not in his right mind be reasonably said to wonder if he was in his right mind
and bring what is more his remains of reason to bear on this perplexity in the
way he must be said to do if he is to be said at all? It was therefore in the
guise of a more or less reasonable being that he emerged at last he knew not
how into the outer world and had not been there for more than six or seven
hours by the clock when he could not but begin to wonder if he was in his right
mind. By the same clock whose strokes were heard time without number in his
confinement as it struck the hours and half hours and so in a sense a source of
reassurance (57)

till finally one of alarm as being no clearer now than when in principle
muffled by his four walls. Then he sought help in the thought of one hastening
westward at sundown to obtain a better view of Venus (58)

and found it (59)
 
of none. Of the sole other sound that of cries enlivener of his solitude as
lost to suffering he sat at his table head on hands the same was true. Of their
whenceabouts that is of clock and cries the same was true that is no more to be
determined now than as was only natural then. Bringing to bear on all this his
remains of reason he sought help in the thought that his memory of indoors was
perhaps at fault (60)

and found it (61)

of none. Further to his disarray his soundless tread as when barefoot he trod
his floor. So all ears from bad to worse till in the end he ceased if not to
hear to listen and set out to look about him. Result finally he was in a field
of grass which went some way if nothing else to explain his tread and then a
little later as if to make up for this some way to increase his trouble. For he
could recall no field of grass from even the very heart of which no limit of
any kind was to be discovered but always in some quarter or another some end in
sight such as a fence or other manner of bourne from which to return. Nor on
his looking more closely to make matters worse was this the short green grass
he seemed to remember eaten down by flocks and herds but long and light grey in
color verging here and there on white. Then he sought help in the thought that
his memory of outdoors was perhaps at fault (62)

and found it (63)

of none. So all eyes from bad to worse till in the end he ceased if not to see
to look (about him or more closely) and set out to take thought. To this end
for want of a stone on which to sit like Walter and cross his legs the best he
could do was stop dead and stand stock still which after a moment of hesitation
he did and of course sink his head as one deep in meditation which after
another moment he did also. But soon weary of vainly delving in these remains
he moved on through the long hoar grass resigned to not knowing where he was
going or how to get back to when he knew not how he came. So on unknowing (64)

and no end in sight. Unknowing and what it is more no wish to know nor indeed
any wish of any kind nor therefore any sorrow save that he would have wished
the strokes to cease and the cries for good and was sorry that they did not.
The strokes now faint (65)

now clear as if carried by the wind but not a breath and the cries now faint
(66)

now clear. (67)

So on still stayed when to his ears from deep within (68)

oh how (69)

and here a word he could not catch (70)

it were to end where (71)

never till then. Rest then before again from not long to so long that perhaps
never again and then again faint from deep within (72)

oh how and here that mising word again (73)

it were to end where never (74)

till then. In any case whatever it might be to end and so on was he not
already as he stood there all bowed down to his ears faint from deep within
again and again oh how something and so on was he not so far as he could see
already there where never till then. For how could such a one as he having once
found himself in such a place not shudder to find himself in it again which he
had not done nor having shuddered seek help in vain in the thought so-called
that having somehow got out of it then he could somehow get out of it again
which he not done either. (75)

There then all this time where never till then (76)

and so far as he could see in every direction when he raised his head and
opened his eyes no danger or hope as the case might be of his ever getting out
of it. Was he then now to press on regardless now in one direction and now in
another or on the other hand stir no more as the case might be that is as that
missing word might be which if to warn such as sad or bad for example then of
course then in spite of all the one and if the reverse then of course the other
that is stir no more. (77)

Such and much more such as the hubbub in his mind so-called (78)

till nothing left from deep within (79)

but only ever fainter oh (80)

to end. (81)

No matter how (82)

no matter where. (83)

Time (84)

and grief (85)

and self so-called. (86)

Oh all to end. (87)
